Barnard cheat sheet for Slint users

Barnard is a Mumble console client accessible with speech.

This document is intended for Slint users wanting to chat with voice and
text together through a connection to the Slint server. 

It includes parts or the README written by Brandon McGinty-Caroll that
you can read locally opening it in a web browser:
/usr/doc/barnard-gitc81c8a0/README.html
Fell free to post corrcetions and enhanecements to the Slint mailing
list, or in Mumble when I am in the Slint room.

1. Getting started

To connect to the Slint channel type as regular user:

barnard -insecure -username <your name> -server slint.fr:64738

Examples:

barnard -insecure -username "Didier Spaier" -server slint.fr:64738
barnard -insecure -username Olman -server slint.fr:64738

The user name can include accented characters, and also the characters
'.' (period or dot)  _ (underscore) and white spaces.
If it includes spaces it should be surrounded by quotes.

Preferably use your first name or your full name so that other users
know who they are talking to.

Don't worry about the -insecure option: this is needed to avoid an error
message but only the users in the room can hear each others and read
the messages written in Barnard.

For now the server includes just the master channel or room, #Slint.

There are two modes between which you can toggle with the Tab key:
the user/channel tree view and the message input box.

After connection the message input box will be displayed. It includes
on top lines like this one:

[10:01:00] Connected to 172.105.89.79:64738                                                    
[10:01:00] Welcome message:  Welcome! This is a place to talk and chat with Slint users
This is the chat log. Messages you receive and type are appear there.

The focus goes at the bottom of the screen where you can type messages,
after the name of the room between square brackets: this is the message
input field.

To switch to user/channel tree view and know who is in the room, press
Tab. The room and users are listed on top, with still an input field at
the bottom.

Initially you are silent (status displayed as 'idle'); to speak press F1
(status displayed as 'tx'), F1 again to mute the microphone.

To exit, press F10.

2. Key bindings

You can see the below key bindings in your configuration file written by
barnard the first time when you start it: ~/.barnard.yaml

Pressing tab inside the main window switches between the user/channel
tree view and the message input box.

When in the message input field:
left and right arrow keys move by character
home/end moves to the beginning/end of the text respectively
enter submits the entered message

When in the tree view:
F5 or F6 on a channel changes the volume for all users in that channel
F5 or F6 on a user changes the volume for that user.
Enter on de-selected user selects that user for PM mode (see below)
Enter on selected user de-selects the user
Enter on a channel de-selects any selected users (if any) and moves you
   to the specified channel.
F1 toggle voice transmission (to speak or mute the microphone)
Ctrl+ clears the chat log
Tab toggle focus between input box and tree view
Page Up scroll chat log up
Page Down scroll chat log down
Home scroll chat log to the top
End scroll chat log to the bottom
F10 quit

3. Audio devices settings (optional)

You can optionally set the default input and output devices in the
config file ~/.barnard.yaml as well as using the usual utilities.
Pass the -list_devices parameter to barnard to be given a list of audio
input and output devices. Copy lines from the above list into
inputdevice and outputdevice as desired. To clear your inputdevice or
outputdevice options and set them to defaults, set them to "" or delete
them entirely.

4. Volume settings

If you set the volume for a user (using the F5/F6 keys by default),
Barnard will remember that volume, and will keep that user at that
volume.

If you set the volume of the channel, you are basically relatively
adjusting each user's volume. If Jim's volume is set to 0.1, and
larry's volume is set to 0.9, lowering the channel by one increment will
mute Jim,and set Larry to 0.8.

You can change the volume for a user once that user has spoken at least
once during a session. Attempts to change the volume of a user who has
not spoken will be ignored. If you are unable to hear a user speaking,
you can edit the ~/.barnard.yaml file, after closing Barnard, and set
the volume parameter to 1.0 for a particular user.

5. Writing messages to all or private for one user in the room

By default messages typed in the message input field are preceded by
[Slint] and all users in the room can read it.

To switch to private mode, first select the user whom you want to write
to in the tree view, and press Enter to select this user

The private mode sets the text to the left of your message entry box to
[@username], where username is the name of the person you are PMing.
While a user is selected, both private messages and channel messages are
displayed. However, any messages you send will be delivered only to the
selected user. Private messages between you and another party are shown
as `pm/source/dest`, where source and dest are the sender and receiver
of the message respectively.
When you are finished sending private messages to a user, press tab to
reactivate the tree view, and de-select the user as above.
